## How to create an authenticated shiny-server using Nginx, auth0, Name Cheap, and Digital Ocean

## Sign up for Digital Ocean: <a href="https://www.digitalocean.com/" target="_blank">Digital Ocean</a>

You will want to sign up for digital ocean. This will allow you to have a remote server that you can reach on any computer. 

### Download and install <a href = "https://www.putty.org/" target = _blank>PUTTY</a>

Depending on the operating system (OS) you are on you will want to download and install PUTTY. This allows you to *SSH* into your digital ocean droplet. You will need to download PUTTY if you are on a Windows computer, if you have linux you can *SSH* in through the terminal. 


### PUTTY Key generator

You can create a ppk key using the PUTTY Key Generator  that you have downloaded. 

### SSH into your droplet

### Update the packages for the first time
First things first, we need to update our droplet for the first time. 

    sudo apt-get update

### Add user to droplet server
Next we are going to add a user to the droplet. This will keep us from using root and messing things up while running as another user. 

    adduser shiny

#### Make user a super user with root privileges
Now we are going to make our previous user a *super-user* with all of the privileges of root, but without the issues. Go ahead and append *gpasswd -a* at the front and the ever important *sudo* call at the end. This makes our user a *super user*. 

    gpasswd -a shiny sudo

### Switch user 
Now we can switch over to the user we previously created and append *sudo* to our commands to run *root* privileges with our current uers. 

    su - shiny


### Install Nginx & update the packages

Next we are going to update our packages again and download and isntall **nginx** in one command. <a href="http://nginx.org/en/docs/beginners_guide.html" target="_blank">NGINX</a>
```
    sudo apt-get update

    sudo apt-get -y install nginx

    sudo nano /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default
```  

### List of nginx commands

The following are a list of *nginx* commands you will want to become familiar with. These commands are necessary to start, stop, and restart the server to allow changes that we came to the configuration files to take effect. 

### Stop the nginx server
    sudo service nginx stop
    
### Start the nginx server

    sudo service nginx start
    
### Restart the nginx server    
    sudo service nginx restart


### Install R

In this step we are going to install R on our ubuntu system. 

#### First we need to add xenial to our sources list in our server

    sudo sh -c 'echo "deb http://cran.rstudio.com/bin/linux/ubuntu xenial/" >> /etc/apt/sources.list'


### Next we need to add the public keys for R

      gpg --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-key E084DAB9
      gpg -a --export E084DAB9 | sudo apt-key add -
  

### Now we can install R on our Droplet. 
First we need to update our packages again. Then we can install base R and the Dev version of R on our ubuntu system in our droplet. You will want to add the command <code>r-base-dev</code> so that you can make use of all of the libraries available in the R ecosystem. If you do not do this, you will be unable to utilize all of the development libraries in the R ecosystem. 


    sudo apt-get update

    sudo apt-get -y install r-base r-base-dev



### Create swap space on server to allow for more room for packages

This part allows us to create swap space on our system for the installation of packages. If we do not have enough memory we will not be able to install many of the packages we may want to. You can change the *count=1024*, but be conservative and do not get over zealous. If you chose a mdoest machine like most other users, you will want to run these commands before installing any of the R libraries. 

      sudo /bin/dd if=/dev/zero of=/var/swap.1 bs=1M count=1024
      sudo /sbin/mkswap /var/swap.1
      sudo /sbin/swapon /var/swap.1
      sudo sh -c 'echo "/var/swap.1 swap swap defaults 0 0 " >> /etc/fstab'


### Let's install the dependencies for us to be able to use the 'devtools' package in R 

    sudo apt-get -y install libcurl4-gnutls-dev libxml2-dev libssl-dev


### Install packages from CRAN and GitHub (devtools, shinyjs)

The devtools is an important package and allows us to use *cutting-egde* packages in R. Many of the packages are usually only available on Github, and require the devtools package to run.

    sudo su - -c "R -e \"install.packages('devtools', repos='http://cran.rstudio.com/')\""
    sudo su - -c "R -e \"devtools::install_github('daattali/shinyjs')\""

### Install RStudio Server:  <a href="https://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download-server/" target="_blank">Download R-Studio Server</a> if you have not already.

    sudo apt-get -y install gdebi-core

    wget https://download2.rstudio.org/rstudio-server-1.1.463-amd64.deb

    sudo gdebi rstudio-server-1.1.463-amd64.deb


### Install Shiny-Server:  <a href="https://www.rstudio.com/products/shiny/download-server/" target="_blank">Download Shiny-Server</a>  if you have not already.

     wget https://download3.rstudio.org/ubuntu-14.04/x86_64/shiny-server-1.5.9.923-amd64.deb
     
     sudo gdebi shiny-server-1.5.9.923-amd64.deb


#### Install the shiny package first

We need to install the shiny package first, this allows us to run the shiny server and our applications. 

    sudo su - -c "R -e \"install.packages('shiny', repos='http://cran.rstudio.com/')\""

##### Set Up Permissions on Shiny Server


    sudo groupadd shiny-apps
    sudo usermod -aG shiny-apps ben
    sudo usermod -aG shiny-apps shiny
    sudo usermod -aG shiny-apps shiny
    cd /srv/shiny-server
    sudo chown -R shiny:shiny-apps .
    sudo chmod g+w .
    sudo chmod g+s .

### Install Git 

Here we are going to install <code>git</code> to allow us to push and pull R & Shiny scripts from other users repositories. 

    sudo apt-get -y install git
    git config --global user.email "you@example.com"
    git config --global user.name "Your Name"

### Make /srv/shiny-server a git repository

We need to make our *shiny-server* a git repository before we can add anything to it. 

    cd /srv/shiny-server
    git init

### Add a git repository to our Shiny Server


    git remote add origin https://github.com/daattali/shiny-server.git
    git add .
    git commit -m "Initial commit"
    git push -u origin master


### Have shiny listen on two ports

This options is for those individual's who want to run their shiny-server on multiple ports. This command is taken directly from the shiny server config documentation at R Studio: <a href="http://docs.rstudio.com/shiny-server/#run-shiny-server-on-multiple-ports" target="_blank">Multiple Shiny Ports</a>

    sudo /opt/shiny-server/bin/deploy-example multi-server

### Restart Shiny Server

Now we need to restart our shiny server with the following command for everythign to take effect. 

    sudo service shiny-server restart


### Create some awesome urls so we do not have to remember port numbers

    sudo nano /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default

### Add the following lines right after the line that reads server_name _;


    location /shiny/ {
      proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:3838/;
      proxy_http_version 1.1;
      proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
      proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";
      rewrite ^(/shiny/[^/]+)$ $1/ permanent;

    }

    location /rstudio/ {
      proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:8787/;
      proxy_http_version 1.1;
      proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
      proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";
    }


    location /private-shiny/ {
      proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:4949/;
      proxy_http_version 1.1;
      proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
      proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";
      rewrite ^(/shiny/[^/]+)$ $1/ permanent;

    }




### Restart Nginx for the changes to take effect

    sudo service nginx restart
    
    
### Updated localhost:3000 to reflect your shiny-auth0 configuration file

### Add auth0 to the private Shiny-Server

        # auth0 server
        location /private-shiny/ {
          proxy_set_header    Host $host;

          # This points to our shiny-auth0 authentication proxy,
          # change localhost:3000 to suit the configuration of
          # your shiny-auth0 config
          proxy_pass          http://localhost:3000;
          proxy_redirect      http://localhost:3000/ $scheme://$host/;

          proxy_http_version  1.1;
          # The following lines enable WebSockets proxying, do not remove them
          # as they are used by Shiny Server to improve user experience
          #proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
          #proxy_set_header Connection $connection_upgrade;

          proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
          proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";

          proxy_connect_timeout 7d;
          proxy_send_timeout 7d;
          proxy_read_timeout 7d;
       }


### Restart Nginx to have the necessary changes take effect

    sudo service nginx restart

